Hello, everyone. In this video we're going over the Environment Alert System.
It actually uses the DragonBoard sensors,
and sends us a notification whenever one of the sensors reads over,
or below us in the threshold.
So here are some of the hardware requirements that we need for this project.
First, you would need the Sensors Mezzanine,
and then the three Grove Connectors.
And then here we specified where you need to connect your temperature, light,
and sound sensors which is A0, A1, A2, respectively.
And then this uses the same parts that we showed on the sensor stream demo.
And this time we're going to use AWS's SNS or
Simple Notification Service to trigger not really text,
but email under certain conditions.
And these conditions are defined by the light, temperature, and sound.
So basically, if it's really dark in the room
below 100 then it will send us a notification saying that the light is too low.
And then for temperature and sound,
the thing needs to be above threshold in order for us to get the notification.
So, let's go to the DragonBoard to see how everything is connected.
So, here we are at the camera shot of our DragonBoard.
And the first sensor which is connected to this one over here,
is the temperature sensor.
And the one connected to this one over here,
this would be the light sensor.
And then the one connected to A2 over here is the sound sensor.
So, let's check out how this thing works.
Here we are at our directory for module two of course three.
And then let's look for alert system.
And then let's move into our DragonBoard Directory. And then here we are.
And if you ls, you see a bunch of security stuff that we're not going to cover.
But what we're really worried about is the setAlert.py script.
So, let's just run this and see what it does.
And then if we run this it should display streaming to AWS as it does right now,
this means that everything is going into AWS.
If we jump to my computer,
we can see here that on the IoT Testing,
we have subscribed to the environment topic which is
the same topic that the DragonBoard is set on.
So you can see all the streaming data here.
We can see sounds changing relevant.
So if you just clap will make it louder.
Yeah. So let me just do a really embarrassing yell into the sound sensor.
Yeah. So it went to 800 and it hurt my ears.
Let's see.
Now, we set an alert for this,
so that on this one it changes it too.
So this one's for the light,
it takes the light, temperature,
and sound and sets it to the environment topic.
And if the light goes under 100 it will send me an email.
So let's just try that right now.
So let's just cover the light sensor with [inaudible].
195.
So if you jump over here and we refresh,
it should send me an email.
It might take a sec.
Wait light is it under 280?
It's 295 actually. Try to make it lower.
512. Let me see.
So if you cover it well
with no light getting in, that should trigger an email.
And then you can see here we got this email,
it wasn't the one we wanted.
Okay. These are some old ones.
This the new email right here,
the light under 73,
and we've got some other ones under 89, under 78.
So, we can use this on some of the other sensors
too to trigger certain things about your environment.
Let's say you're monitoring your lizard or
something and you want to keep the temperature at the exact temperature,
and if it ever went too hot or too cold for it might die.
So, you want to alert yourself if that ever happens,
so you can come back home and make sure your lizard doesn't die.
So that was an example of how to use sensors with SNS integration.
You can also include text.
Make sure not to hit the limit on that,
because it's actually much lower than email limit.
You can use text to notify you or email.
And you can integrate this to any of
your projects and make it a little bit more exciting.